Par.

Philo.

Par.

tth'lo.
1Par.
tPlzz'lo.
Par.

THE MOTHER-lN-LAW

As 1 hope to be saved, my purpose in'asking is not
to let it out but to rejoice over it in secrecy and
silence.

Talk as winningly as you can, but I’ll never trust
my hide to your honour.

Now don't say that, Parmeno, I am sure your
{elagegssegs to tell is much greater than mine to hear

(aside) It's the truth, and that's my worst fault.
(aloud) Swear you’ll hold your tongue and I’ll tell
you.

That’s yourself again. I swear it: now speak out.
Listen.

I’m all ear.

Pamphilus was in love with Bacchis here every bit
as much as ever when his father set about entreat-
ing him to marry, talking just the strain of all
fathers, how he was old and had only that one son
and wanted a protection for his old age. At first
Pamphilus said “No'' plump, but when his father
pressed it more hotly it put him between two minds,
whether to listen more to duty or to love. By
dinning at him till the lad was sick of it the old
man at last carried his point, and Pamphilus became
engaged to the daughter of our nearest neighbour
here. (points to tlze house) Pamphilus didn't take
it so very much to heart until on the brink of the
wedding, when he saw all was ready and marry he
must and no putting it off. Then his distress was
enough, I believe, to make Bacchis herself, had
she been there, take pity on him. Whenever he
had time to steal away and talk it over with me,
“Parmen0,’' he’d cry. “l’m lost! What a thing to

137

